Hi.
And welcome back.
So let's look at this question.
Why packages.
Mainly it's for code organization and ease of use.
Let's take an example.
Suppose you've got you know like 50 different functions and classes in your program that you need to
use.
And let's say we're writing an API now we could put things into a single file but what would have to
go into that single file would have to do things like connecting to a database executing queries against
a database.
You know a type that doesn't return results one that returns a single row multiple rows.
Maybe we need some data manipulation functions like normalize a string convert a string to a boolean
format a date into an ISO standard maybe get the current time in UTC because we'd never remember how
to get the or the current UTC times.
We package it up at a function.
We need probably something to authenticate or user against our app API.
We need to validate maybe the API tokens get passed.
When you do get permissions we maybe need to authorize various endpoints differently based on the authentication
and the permissions.
And then maybe we have got a bunch of classes as well and if we have a user class and a user profile
class and we have a users class for collections of users and maybe this is a web site with blogging.
So this blog post and blog posts there's a route table if we're doing an API this probably some configuration
going on somewhere and we usually have to take Jaison from post requests and put them into objects and
take the results that we want to bring back from the API put it into a J-Zone payload and send that
back out.
So we need some kind of Jaison encoder with encoding decoding.
We probably want to put unit tests and then we have other things too that we will want to audit the
endpoints and we've got a logger that we're using maybe we've got validation code for emails and phones
and names and so on.
So we have all this stuff going on.
But in one file.
Even poor old blob you know is scared to look at this.
It's going to be very difficult to understand what's going on in that single file.
So we don't write it in a single file.
Let's talk about modules so we might break it down this way.
Let's say our route of our application is called API and we have our main application code script API.
Why that's going to start the you know let's say the rests API isover and then maybe we have a file
a module for the database utilities you know the connections and the queries.
Maybe we'll go one for the Jason utility's the J song decoding code and so on.
Maybe we've got these type conversions converting you know a string to a boolean normalizing strings
and doing all kinds of stuff that we need to do that we have all validations you know validate email
validate name we've got the authentication piece you know basically you know how do we have theni Kate
the user.
Then there's the authorization piece once we've authenticated the user.
What are they authorized to do.
Maybe we're using roles What roles do they have.
And then we have of course our users we have the user the user profile and then the users collection.
We've got blog posts.
Same deal of the blogs the blog posts.
We've got out logging all we have our unit tests etc..
There's probably a bunch more in there.
So this is better.
The code now is at least a little bit better organized.
We can understand that if we're looking for authorization code we probably should go to the authorization
IPY module but it's still unwieldy.
Everything's at the top level.
And you just have too many impled if you don't.
If API IPY is the main app then it's going to have to import all those things at some point.
It's going to need them.
So you end up with code like this you could import DB utilities based on utilities type conversions
etc. and that's just very unwieldy and also certain modules could probably be broken down further.
For example DB utilities would probably want to break that out into the connections and the queries
that kind of two separate things you need a connection to make a query but you'd probably want to break
your code out that way.
So think of uses you know the uses p y contains all these different classes use a user's user profile
would probably want to break that out again into separate files and separate modules.
But if we do like you know user Doppie why uses duppy Why use a profiler.
Why that's even more impuls that we have to do and then Soden modules kind of belong together.
They should be grouped together like for example authentication and authorization that I have here.
They kind of all related to security so we probably want to somehow you know bind them together as one
thing saying well this is the security stuff just the same way if we break out users into user users
and use profile we'd want to be able to kind of you know package them together so that what package
packages them together into something may be called users.
So that's what packages are for.
Let's go ahead and take this and let's convert that to a better format using packaging.
So again here's the route and let's say we create this utilities package the I'm not saying this is
the best way to do it.
I'm just showing you how you know one way of doing this.
So we create the utilities package.
It's a package.
It's a directory of a danger in it.
So it's a package.
And then it contains itself a sum package called database.
Again that's a package.
And maybe the database contains these two models connections and queries.
Maybe we have a Jasen package inside our utilities and maybe that contains our encoders and our decoders.
Then under the you know in the main Our top level we have another package called security and maybe
that contains those two models.
Or maybe you have all the sub packages that breaks things down from way.
B We have a models package and the model contains the different data models that we have.
Like the users and the block post so we may have a users sub package in there that might contain use
it or P Why use a profiled P Y and maybe some other modules as well.
So this allows us to give structure to our code.
Its now much easier to navigate.
Also we're starting to break things down into smaller code files.
We don't want large code files.
But it's you know the larger the code file the module file is the more difficult it is to understand.
And so we want to try and break things down into smaller components just like we don't write functions
that have thousands of lines of code.
We usually will break that down into smaller subfunctions that do us one specific task and then when
we call them unsaddle main function it's much easier to understand what the main function does.
If it's only a few lines of code because conceptually we can say OK this main function calls function
one two three and four.
I understand what those functions do conceptually.
So I know now what the main function does.
And then if you want to understand specifically how the different pieces are implemented you go and
look at the subfunction.
So that's called decomposition.
You decompose problems into smaller and smaller you know specific chunks that do a single thing and
that's much easier to test now because you can test does this function do this one thing.
So here's another use case.
Let's say you've got a module that implements two functions and classes for users of this module.
So let's say there's a function in a class that this module is going to you know export essentially
make available to a user of that module.
So here we're differentiating two you know two ways of looking at this module from the developer of
the modules perspective.
So you say writing the module and from somebody who uses the module.
So also a developer.
But in this case there are actually eight users.
They your users so these two objects require 20 different helper functions and two additional helper
classes and who knows what else.
OK.
So it needs a bunch of stuff.
So from the module developers perspective it's of course much easier to break the code down into multiple
modules including packages.
But from the module users perspective they just want a single import for the function in the class because
that's all they need that's all this module right or this what's it's going to end up being a package.
That's all it provides.
It provides one function in one class to the uses of that module.
And so they should just be able to import that function in that class and then be done with it.
So to them it should look like a single module but to us writing the module we're going to want to break
this thing up into chunks because you know 20 functions two additional classes you know we're going
to want to break that up.
So let's take a look at it from the module developer's perspective.
Here's how we might break up let's say a package called my lib.
So we don't have a package and we create two submodules in that package and then we also create a sub
package and inside that sub package it also has two modules.
OK so this is what our code looks like.
And let's say that the function that the user wants is located in submodel one and let's say that the
class they want to use is located here.
Pack 1 month to dopy y.
So from our perspective we've broken this thing down in a way that's easy for us to code the module
easy to understand it easy to test it and easy to document it for that matter.
So smaller code modules with specific purpose.
Right the easy to write and so on debug and read.
But what about from the module users perspective.
So let's say we have the structure.
Now if the user wants to use a function in this module and a class in this module Here's what they would
have to write that would have to say from my lib Dud's submarined one import my funkin from my lib.
Doug Sebag one pack one more to import my class.
What's happening here is that they're seeing the internal kind of implementation details of our package.
And that's really not very user friendly.
Sure it works but that's not the best approach.
It would be much easier for the user if they could just say from my lib import my funkin my class or
even simpler to say import my lib and then call my Akido my lived up my phunk or instantiate classes
with my list of my class from the user's perspective.
That's what they want to see from the package developer's perspective.
This is how we want to structure our code.
That's the implementation details but we really don't want the user to have to deal with implementation
details.
So this is where we can use the under and why we can use packages in the code to export to ex-POWs just
what's needed by our users.
So let's take a look again at that same example.
And in the Duntroon that file of my live the package we're going to write this we're going to say from
my live submodel one import my phunk from my lib sub package one doc package one module to import my
class.
So now the user sees it this way and they use it this way.
They say improve my lib my Leboeuf my funk because that was imported by the package man you know code
itself and in my classes well has just been exposed or exploited.
So our internal implementation now is good and we'll cover this in a lot more detail in the next video
so to recap why packages.
Well it gives us the ability to break code up into smaller chunks.
And it makes our code easier to write.
It's easier to test and debug it's easier to read and understand and it's actually easier to document
as well instead of trying to document you know one huge module.
We just have to document individual functions individual submodules and sub packages.
So this is just the way the whole books are done as well.
When you get a book it's not just you know sentences from beginning to end.
It's broken down into chapters into sections into paragraphs right.
Things are broken down there's a hierarchical structure to that book the same thing with our code but
there can still be stitched together.
Right.
Just like the book is bound into you know all these chapters and sections are bound into one book that
can be all same thing of our packages that can be stitched together but unlike books of course it can
hide the implementation from all users.
They don't have to know exactly how we structured our code where the code lives and so on.
At the end of the day they just want to use our code and you know as a developer of a module you're
actually your own user as well.
So not only do develop your modules even if you don't hand them out to somebody else.
You're still using them some way too.
So sending your packages.
You're a user of your own packages.
So you want to make using your packages as simple as possible.
So for our users it makes their code easier to write easier to test and debug and easier to read and
understand as well they don't have these long imports of thousands of imports to do.
It's much simpler to understand.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.